#Principles Of Perfect Software 

Through 20 years of software design and engineering practice, I realised these principles of perfect software creation. I decided to document them for all those who want to improve their software. For those that want to create tools which are at least close to perfection. For those that are aiming for optimal results, with minimum effort. This always struck me as the wisest way to approach any activity. Utilise energy as effectively as possible, while creating the most impactful results in the process. This is especially true of software projects where energy gets used in massive quanities. Vast amounts of energy get wasted by badly written software, which is far from optimal. Far from optimal software gets created by practitioners who do not follow principles outlined in this book. Software that is near perfection gets created by practitioners who **do** follow these principles. So, let's get into the principles and make more perfact software more possible. 

## Principle 1: Caring

'What's 'caring' got to do with Software Engineering?' you might ask. The answer is simple. Everything! I've come across **so many** people in my professional experience who simply don't care about software. They treat it as a chore. As a kind of a pain in the backside, which is best done as quickly as possible and forgotten about. I've never found this to be possible in software projects. As soon as developers get committed to a software project, chances are, that software project will linger around for years and years to come. No company commits to developing software they don't care to make. Therefor the principle of 'caring' is essential. The software you are creating needs to be treated as an artistic masterpiece. Most artists are engineers in disguise. They are making things using the same mathematical principles and rules of aesthetics as engineers do. Any masterpiece has a long term impact and 'stays fresh' for a long time to come. This is the case with perfect software too. If you don't care about what you are coding, you should probably not be a software engineer. If you don't care, sooner or later you or others in your team are going to start 'suffering your code'. That's a terrible place for everyone in the team to be at. More importantly, carelessly written code adds overhead for future upgrades and maintenance and simply costs money and time to manage. Perfect software, however, over time keeps producing higher and higher ROI by being maintanable at fraction of a cost to comparable other software. Most cowboy developers don't even begin to understand this and, as such, will come into teams, quickly 'pollute' the codebase with junk code and before you even know your software is impossible to work with. If every member within the team does not deeply care about what they are making, your software project is already in potentially very deep trouble. 